Lauren Chadwick
This is Lauren from RStudio. Please, a warm welcome.
Thank you. Thank you, Greg. Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Lauren Chadwick. I work
on RStudio's customer success team. I really didn't want to kick off today with a typical
this is my title, and this is what it means type of introduction. But it turns out, as
it relates to the broader topic and what I want to share with you today, my role in customer
success is one of the more relevant factors. Now, to this day, I've supported over 200
organizations, primarily companies in the life sciences umbrella, as well as a lot of
our university accounts. And in that journey, I've gotten to really dig in and figure out
what these people are doing with R, what problems they're solving, what challenges they're facing,
what their architecture and their environment looks like, and what their forward-looking
plans are for the language. All of the good stuff, right? I get that high-level view over
all of these teams that I work with. And it's my absolute passion to dig in and figure out
how we can best support them and how we can make their lives a little bit easier. And
that's what it regardless of where you are on your journey with R today, and regardless
of what you know, what your story is, I can't get that full picture for you today. I can't
figure out what the most interesting thing to you is in the first 20 minutes that I have
here. But what I can say is that you're an asset to our community. You're somebody that
RStudio is thinking a lot about and really wants to help and probably can help. And that's
what I want to talk to you about today. I've titled my talk Meet You Where You Are in hopes
to shed some light on the ways that RStudio can be leveraged at various points in a data
science journey and how the teams and the universities that I'm working with are already
doing that today. Now, in the eyes of RStudio, there's really three key areas that we're
hyper focused on to ensure that the open source community that this right here lives on for
a really long time. The first one is approachability. How to make the R language approachable. How
to make it easy to learn and easy to use R. The second one is communicating in production.
How do you bridge the gap between the R user and the data scientist working in R every
day and the stakeholder of the work that they're doing? And the third one is leveraging
other tools. How do you extend the R language and the RStudio software to work well with
other tools and languages and technologies that are valued by all of you and by the community?
And as you'll see as we go along, each of these three buckets kind of naturally maps
to different points of a data science journey that a team might go through. Now, when you
think about approachability, making the R language approachable, easy to learn, easy
to use, a few things from RStudio that you might think about are things like the tidy
verse or the cheat sheets that we all love or the webinars that RStudio frequently holds
to deep dive into certain topics. Or perhaps one of our later investments, RStudio Cloud.
Now, can I get a show of hands here for anybody that knows what RStudio Cloud is or anybody
that's used it? Great. A lot of you. Well, for those of you who don't know, RStudio Cloud
is a free RStudio hosted platform designed for the purpose of teaching and learning R.
In fact, if you go to RStudio.cloud right now and you scroll down half an inch, you'll
see that our mission is to literally make it easy to share, teach, and learn data science
using R. And the reason RStudio Cloud makes that so easy is because you don't have to
download or install anything to be able to use it. All you need is an email address.
And once you've taken those few minutes and you've created an account with RStudio Cloud,
you log in here, you'll see, like I'm showing on my screen, that you have the RStudio IDE
at your disposal without having to install anything. So rather than your first experience
with R being all about trying to download and get everything working on your desktop,
you get to focus that time and energy on getting excited about learning R, getting excited
about learning the IDE. And once you're out here, you have all of these different tools
at your disposal to help make it even easier. For example, you have these primers, which
are essentially interactive tutorials designed to help you learn the basics of the language.
You have your user guide. You have your cheat sheets. Without even having to leave the RStudio
Cloud platform, you have this wealth of resources at your fingertips to help make it easy.
And in conversations that I have with teams, I see this being used at all sorts of levels here.
For example, at the individual level, I work with a lot of IT and admin resources that
don't necessarily need to know R for their day-to-day work, but they want to better understand
what they're bringing into their university or their organization. Just want to understand
it a little bit better. At the academic level, RStudio is supporting over 650 universities
that are using RStudio Cloud to teach data science in the classroom today. Over 650 universities.
That number is constantly growing. On the corporate side of the world, my customer success
team sees this being used pretty extensively as well. In my personal experience, I work
with a lot of companies that are undergoing some form of a SaaS to R migration and need
to completely learn the R language from scratch. We also see companies and universities that
have their own internal R meetup groups or their own conferences or R day or shiny day.
And to encourage participation in those sessions and encourage people to come and get their
hands on R, they're using RStudio Cloud for that. In fact, a great corporate example of
a team that's using RStudio Cloud pretty extensively is Johnson & Johnson. Last month on December
4th, Johnson & Johnson did a public-facing webinar where they dove into their use case
for RStudio Cloud and why they chose to use it and what they're using it for, for corporate
trainings. And the reason they chose to use it, as you can see here, is because of simplicity.
It's easy to use. And that's our whole goal with approachability is to make R easy to
learn and easy to use. But maybe you're at a point in your journey where you don't need
to learn R. You already know it. You're using it every day. You're working in R. You're
making reports. You're making shiny applications, dashboards, what have you. So how do we help
you? And that brings us to our next area of investment, which is communicating in production.
How do you bridge that gap between the R users and teams working in R every day and the stakeholders
of the work that they're doing? Right? And we know that as a data scientist that's working
in R every day, that your very first thought when you built a R markdown report or a dashboard
or a great shiny application, that your very first thought is not going to be, how do I
get this to everyone else? Right? Your first thought is going to be all the steps that
it takes to make it interactive and make it look nice and make it work. But at the end
of the day, unless maybe you're a hobbyist, you're not about to make that dashboard or
that markdown report or that application for no reason. You're doing it because somebody
out there, whether it's your students, your university, your research team, your customers,
your clients, somebody out there wants to interact with the work that you're doing to
make a decision or to answer a question, to gain more insights. Right? And if you're anything
like the teams I'm working with, you might already have ways of doing that today. Maybe
you have a Git repository for all your work. Or maybe you're copying and pasting your code
and your plots into PowerPoint slides before your meetings. Maybe if it comes to an R markdown
report or a notebook, you're emailing them around as attachments. All of your work is
all over the place. That's okay. That could work for some time. But what happens when
you build more and more data products and more types of data products and more and more
people become interested in the work that you're doing and want to be able to see it?
And what happens when every single person on your team is doing the exact same thing
as you are and suddenly everyone's work is throughout different inboxes, different emails,
different folders, different Git repositories, different PowerPoint slides? That's a mess.
That's inarguably messy, it's manual, it's time-consuming, and you're setting yourself
up to lose sight of work that you spent a lot of time and energy on. And that's a mess
that my team and customer success saw day in and day out when meeting with different
universities and different companies. And that's the mess that we engineered RStudio
Connect to help fix. Now, RStudio Connect is a publishing platform. It's a central location
for all the work that you're doing in R and all the work that you're doing in Python.
And it's intended to be installed behind your university or your company's firewall. So
RStudio doesn't have access to any of your data or any of the data products that you're
putting on RStudio Connect. And to show you an example, I'm going to flip back over here
to the RStudio IDE. The one that I'm showing here right now is RStudio Server Pro. This
is our professional browser-based IDE. But you can use any IDE that you want, the free
desktop, the free server, whatever your preference is. And as you can see here, I'm about to
show you an application that I put a ton of blood and sweat and tears into. You ready?
Here it is, old faithful, hello world, my application, right? And as you can see, in
this moment, this application can only be consumed by me, right? It's running in my
laptop on my personal session. Nobody else can interact with it unless I pass my laptop
around the room. As great of an option as it would be to pass my laptop around the room
to all of you, you'll also notice that I have this little blue button here in the top right-hand
corner. It's a publishing button. When I click that button, what it allows me to do is send
my application or my report or whatever I've built here to RStudio Connect. So you can
see now that I'm on RStudio Connect. I have the same application, but now it's in a position
where other people can interact with it. And the cool thing about Connect is I, as the
data scientist, the publisher of this amazing application, I get to control who exactly
I want to be able to interact with it, whether it's just a few people on my team or my entire
research group or my entire company, my entire customer base, right? I get to control that.
And once you're out here, there's all sorts of different bells and whistles designed for
the different use cases that you might have for a publishing platform like this, whether
it be an internal collaboration use case amongst your university or whether you're a company
trying to deploy an application to hundreds of customers. We see it all. Connect was engineered
with all of those different use cases in mind. And I don't have the time to go through each
and every one of them today, but what I can show you is a few of our fan favorites here.
For example, if I wanted to share my application with a group of people on my team, but I didn't
want them to have to log into RStudio Connect, what I can do is assign a custom vanity URL
to the application and share that with them. So if I share this URL down here and they
click it, they can open the same application in a web browser here and interact with it
without seeing all the background of RStudio Connect. A lot of teams that I work with have
a use case for R Markdown as well. So if you have an R Markdown report, you want it to
automatically run every Monday at 8 a.m., you can do that with RStudio Connect and set
it to run automatically on a recurring basis. And then from there, you get to decide whether
or not you want an email to go out to a group of people based on certain parameters that
are important to you. Now, every morning, Monday to Friday, I wake up and I have two
refreshed R Markdown reports in my inbox ready to be searched. And that's awesome, right?
Nobody had to touch that to make that happen. So RStudio Connect is really designed to help
organize your content in a way that makes sense for your use case and automate processes
that are manual in nature. But maybe one of the biggest advantages of RStudio Connect
is it's not only designed for the work that you're doing in R, it's also designed for
the work that you're doing in Python. So for example, if you have a different part of your
university or a different part of your company that's using Jupyter Notebooks or maybe you've
made a reticulated asset that uses both R and Python under the hood, with that same
deployment process, you can also send that to RStudio Connect. And to give you a glimpse,
a lot of teams that we're working with, a lot of universities that we're working with
have already found this successful in their workflows. In fact, in the last month, I've
worked with two completely different universities and their corresponding med schools to help
implement a company-wide, university-wide instance of RStudio Connect for all of their
teams' R products and all of their teams' Python data products. And that takes me nicely
to the third and final investment area that I want to share with you today, which is leveraging
other tools. Now, to nobody's surprise, R is very special to us. If I had to guess,
I'd guess that it also holds some degree of importance to all of you as well. And if not,
you might be in the wrong hotel this week. But we can also come to terms with the idea
that once you're using R and RStudio in your workflows, and once you bring them to production,
that there's also going to be a lot of other tools and languages and technologies that
are important to you. Right? For example, maybe you're using Docker or you're using
Spark. You're trying to connect to databases. You're using Git or TensorFlow. Right? So,
how do we as a company extend the R language and the RStudio software to work nicely with
all of those other types of tools? Now, for the sake of relevancy to the last example,
let's take a deeper look into Python. Now, a lot of universities and a lot of companies
have a use case for both R and Python. Both languages are incredibly powerful. They're
used for different purposes. They're solving different problems. And we work with a lot
of teams that have a use case for both. So, how do we help support those teams? How do
we help make it so you can use R and Python in the same exact workflow or at least have
them coexist nicely under the same roof? Now, we already talked about how with RStudio Connect,
you can share the Python work that you're doing. But what if we take a step back and
look at the development side, the admin side? What about the IT and the admin resources
that are responsible for overseeing two completely different environments? Or what about the
multilingual user that's constantly flipping between development environments just to get
their work done? How do we support those people? To answer that question, a few months ago,
back in September, RStudio introduced Jupyter support in RStudio Server Pro, which is that
professional browser-based IDE where I showed you that hideous application before. And now,
universities and companies that have any mix of a use case for both R and Python have one
development environment to log into to get their work done and just one environment to
manage their workflows. Flip back over here, I'm going to show you RStudio Server Pro.
As you can see here, this time I'm on the home screen. If I click this new session button,
you'll see that I have an editor option where I can choose from RStudio, JupyterLab, or
Jupyter Notebooks. Now, let's say this time around I'm just a Python user. I don't care
about R. I don't want to use it. I just want to start a Jupyter Notebook. So, I'm going
to select Jupyter Notebook. If I click start session, you'll see that I have my Jupyter
Notebook running inside of RStudio Server Pro. So, as a Python user, I don't even have
to know that other R users or Python users are running RStudio sessions or JupyterLab
sessions on the same server as me. All I care about is my Jupyter Notebook. If the time
comes where I'm ready to share this with other people, you'll see that I have the same blue
publishing button where I can share it out to RStudio Connect. So, we've come full circle.
Let's say for a second I'm a multilingual user using both R and Python. Just as easily,
I can flip back, go to RStudio, the home screen, and start another RStudio session like I did
before. And a lot of you may know that within RStudio itself, you can also do things like
run Python scripts or add Python code chunks to your R Markdown reports or use packages
like Reticulate to embed Python code into your R session. There's all sorts of ways
that you can leverage both languages in your workflows. And as new as a lot of this functionality
is, we've already seen it as a pretty popular option amongst the teams that we're working
with. Now, a lot of teams that we're working with, for example, I was just in Seattle a
few days ago, and I was meeting with a company, and they're looking to replace their Jupyter
Hub solution with this solution because they see it as an opportunity to really reduce
their footprint because they know it's fully supported by RStudio. So, they know if anything
goes wrong with their R environment or their Python environment, they have a team of people
they can reach out to for help. Now, I hope to at least have painted a high-level picture
of the ways that RStudio is thinking about different individuals and data science teams
at various parts of a data science journey. So, whether you relate to any of these specific
examples or feel like you fall somewhere in between, just know that RStudio is thinking
about you. We want to help you. We want you to live this value live. Because at the end
of the day, those universities and companies investing in the work that we're doing are
the sole reason that we're able to invest back so heavily in the open source and the
reason we're able to codify it in our mission, like JJ said earlier. And we hope to be able
to do this for a really long time, because we really want to support the open source
community. Now, after everything I wanted to share with you today, I imagined I wouldn't
have a ton of time for questions, but I do want to let you know that the RStudio team
will be out in the lounge over the next few days, hoping you guys come and talk to them,
whether it be about this or about anything else that you're wondering what people are
doing. I also wanted to share some resources and contact information in case you have questions
or want to explore any of this at your leisure. Feel free to take a picture of this or write
down anything. Thank you.
We have time for one question. I'm sorry, we were a little bit late starting and I apologize
for that. But Lauren's going to be around for the next couple of days. Please come and
pick her brains. And please, another warm round of applause for Lauren. Thank you very
much.
Thank you.